https%3A%2F%2Fd396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net%2Fnlp%2Fslides%2F03-01-MultinomNBexample.pdf

判斷有沒有收斂的方式,常見的方式是多跑幾組chain
```r
tau.init=c(1,2,3)
```
這邊就跑三組。

####rhat(potential scale reduction factor)
看有沒有收斂主要是看rhat,越靠近一，就算是越收斂。
####n.eff
n是樣本大小,n.eff為有效樣本的意思。

##Convergence

如何檢驗是否收斂?

* Visual Inspection
* Geleman and Rubin Diagnostic
* Geweke Diagnostic
etc..

burnin要丟掉的資料比數(ex:burnin:3000,代表妳要丟掉前三千筆資料)

from our theory of markov chains,we expect our chains to eventually converge to the stationary distribution,which is also our target ditribution.

however there is no guarantee that our chain has converged after M draws.

How do we know whether our chian has actually converge?


###Mining
one way to see if our chain has converged is to see how well our chain is mixing , or moving around the parameter space.
If our chain is taking a long time to move around the parameter space,then it will take longer to converge.

We can see how well our chain is mixing through visual inspection.
we need to do the inspections for every parameter.

###Gelman and Rubin Multiple Sequence Diagnostic

1. Run m >= 2 chains of length 2n from overdispersed starting values.
使用比較分散的初始值

2. Discard the first n draws in each chain.
丟掉前n的抽出來的東西

3. Calculate the within-chain and between-chain variance.
within(組內),between(組間)

4. Calculate the estimated variance of the parameter as a weighted sum of the within-chain and between-chain variance.

5. Calculate the potential scale reduction factor.

####Within Chain Variance
\\(
\large W=\frac{1}{m}\Sigma^m_{j=1}s^2_j \\
where\\
\large s^2_j=\frac{1}{n-1}\Sigma^n_{i=1}(\theta_{ij}-\bar{\theta_j})^2
\\)

####Betewwn Chain Variance
\\(
B=\frac{n}{m-1}\Sigma^mj=1(\bar{\theta_j}-\bar{\bar{\theta_j}} )^2 \\
where \\
\large \bar{\bar{\theta}}=\frac{1}{m}\Sigma^m_{j=1}\bar{\theta}_j
\\)

####Estimated Variance
\\(
\hat{Var(\theta)}= (1-1/n)W+1/n*B
\\)


####Potential Scale Reduction Factor
\\(
\large \hat{R}=\sqrt{\frac{\hat{Var(\theta)}}{w}}
\\)
###install packages
WinBUGS